Update (#68)
OpenVoiceOS/community-docs: docs/starting_systemd.md

# Starting OVOS - systemd

> OVOS being a modular system has several pieces that can start individually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OVOS, being a modular system, has several pieces that can start individually.
```

> user systemd service files are the recomended way to start each module, but may be started in other ways also.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User `systemd` service files are the recommended way to start each module, but may be started in other ways also.
```

Reviewer: Consider striking "but may be started in other ways also" or adding a couple of other ways they could be started.

Author: Might check this one too.

> This is the prefered method to start the OVOS modules.  If you have not used `systemd` before, there is a lot of refrence on the web with more information.  It is out of scope of this document.  The following is assuming the user `ovos` is being used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the prefered method to start the OVOS modules.  If you have not used `systemd` before, there are many references on the web with more information.  It is out of scope of this document.  The following is assuming the user `ovos` is being used.
```

> A `systemd service` file and a `systemd hook` file is required for this to work.  We will create both files for the `ovos-messagebus` service because this is used by all other modules.  The provided `system hook` files need another python package `sdnotify` to work as written.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `systemd service` file and a `systemd hook` file is required for this to work.  We will create both files for the `ovos-messagebus` service because this is used by all other modules.  The provided `system hook` files need another Python package (`sdnotify`) to work as written.
```

> `pip install sdnotify`

Reviewer: Consider adding a note that this should be run in the virtual environment for the OVOS installation. I'm not a fan of ever recommending that users install to the system Python path, but if that's something OVOS recommends for dedicated devices, calling that out explicitly is probably a good idea.

Author: Check how I did this too please

### ovos.service
This is the main service file that is used to start the stack as a unit.  This is not necessasary, but helpful if more than one module should start together.

Create the service file

`nano .config/systemd/user/ovos.service`

This file should contain
```
[Unit]
Description=OVOS A.I. Software stack.

[Service]
Type=oneshot
ExecStart=/bin/true
RemainAfterExit=yes

[Install]
WantedBy=default.target
```

There is no `hook` file needed for this service.

### ovos-messagebus.service
The messagebus is the main nervous system for OVOS and is needed by all other modules to enable communication between them.

Create the service file

`nano ~/.config/systemd/user/ovos-messagebus.service`

And make it contain the following

```
[Unit]
Description=OVOS Messagebus
PartOf=ovos.service
After=ovos.service

[Service]
Type=notify
ExecStart=/home/ovos/.local/bin/ovos-systemd-messagebus
TimeoutStartSec=1m
TimeoutStopSec=1m
Restart=on-failure
StartLimitInterval=5min
StartLimitBurst=4
#StartLimitAction=reboot-force

> #WatchdogSec=30s

Reviewer: Why include commented out lines?

# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
##########################################################################
import sdnotify
from mycroft.messagebus.service.__main__ import main

n = sdnotify.SystemdNotifier()

def notify_ready():
    n.notify('READY=1')
    print('Startup of Mycroft Messagebus service complete')

    def notify_stopping():
        n.notify('STOPPING=1')
        print('Stopping the Mycroft Messagebus service')

        main(ready_hook=notify_ready, stopping_hook=notify_stopping)
```

Reload the systemd daemon

`systemctl --user daemon-reload`

The service can now be started

`systemctl --user start ovos-messagebus.service`

To start the stack on boot, enable both of the services

`systemctl --user enable ovos.service`

`systemctl --user enable ovos-messagebus.service`

Now on every reboot, the OVOS system should start automatically.

**NOTE** the systemd service and hook files are examples used in the [raspbian-ovos](https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/raspbian-ovos) repository.

> For each module that needs to be started, they should have similar `service` and `hook` files.

Reviewer: Consider a list of typical services, or a link to them in the `rasbian-ovos` repository.
